***
[[Quantum Thoughts]]
***

We think redshift occurs because of how long it takes light to reach us from far away.  The assumption here is that the speed of light is constant, even through parts of the universe--between galaxies--that are experiencing accelerated expansion.  But what if they aren't experiencing acceleration and light just travels slower through these regions?  Or alternatively, perhaps the speed of light is indeed constant, but time moves faster in these regions.

The same argument can be made w.r.t. dark matter.  The bodies rotating around the edges of galaxies are moving too fast.  It seems like they need to have more mass to keep them tethered to their galaxies.  Or maybe they aren't moving as fast as we think; maybe their velocities are lower.  A lower velocity could come about one of two ways, by less distance traveled or more time.  If time is moving faster for them, then they might be experiencing lower velocity even while we observe them at higher velocities.  We know time is local to the observer, so why not?

Perhaps entanglement violates the Principle of Locality by the same mechanism.  We perceive entangled particles as transmitting information at faster than the speed of light.  In this case, velocity is too high, so distance needs to be less or time needs to be slower--for them, the particles--we're just measuring it wrong: we're measuring our time, not their time.  Time moves slower at quantum scale.

Could the (perceived) probabilistic nature of quantum mechanics be explained by this also?  Perhaps the probabilism is only a matter of perception due to mis-measurement of time.  If an atom experiences no time, from its perspective, this could explain why electrons appear to us to be in all of their possible locations at the same time.

Sean Carrol writes, "An unaccelerated trajectory yields the greatest possible time a clock could measure between two events."  A clock on a rocket ship that zooms away from Earth, wraps around, and comes back, will be behind a clock that remains on the surface of the earth during the rocket ship's trip.  What velocity was the rocket ship traveling at?  Both the rocket ship and the earthling agree on the distance the rocket traveled, but they don't agree on how long it took, so again velocity is in the eye of the beholder.

We think the initial inflation of the universe occurred very quickly, in a nearly infinitesimal amount of time, but that's only our perception, again because we're measuring time from our perspective.  If we think of the rocket ship as bending or transforming the fabric of space via its acceleration, then we might say that time moves slower from the perspective of an object that is transforming the fabric.  If we think of inflation as 1e90 rockets (or whatever the really big number is) then there was a heck of a lot of this space transformation going on; and from the perspective of an observer who was there, it would have taken a really, really long time.

On the surface, all of these seem to point in the same direction of time being faster at larger scales and slower at smaller scales.  The scale might not be the operative variable however.  Rather, these all point in the direction of time being faster in the absence of accelerating matter and slower in its presence.